# From React to NextJS

As we've discussed at the beginning, React is not a framework but a library. It helps you build the components and all the necessary code snippets in a declarative way (instead of imperative as it would be with Javascript)

This means that the `DoM` tree creation, for example, is performed under the hood without using dom methods in a script.

The components are called the same way as the normal tags, and it lands a mix of Javascript and HTML format (also called JSX, which btw is not supported by browsers natively). 

This components are reusable, and you can nest components inside components: that's amazing! you only render the top component of it, and the browser will take all along. 

Data flows from top parent to childs, and usually is passed through props, making the components useful when it comes to generalize and put different information inside it (src parameter of a image, title of a button, href of an anchor...). So those are defined.

Also, interactivity is managed by functions inside of the components, that state which behaviour we want to achieve whenever an event happens into an specific component. We have onClick, onChange, onSubmit... and all of those accept a function.

The other cool thing is that we can manage state internally. State means any information attached to a component that may vary in time due to an user interaction. Those are `hooks` or utility functions provided by React, where it always output a value and a setter function (you can always use array destructuring). The argument is to set up an initial value. The setter is called in the event handler usually (or whenever you want to display it) and then you define the change in the state of the value.

## Transition

All of this is basically perfect for an user interace. However, there are newer React features (such as Server and Client components) that needs a framework in behind, in addition to the tooling configuration (routing, data fetching/cache, rendering) and more infrastructure-wise (infrastructure, performance, scalability, integrations, developer experience...)

You will need these three dependencies to continue a project with React and NextJS (``npm install``):

* react@latest
* react-dom@latest
* next@latest

in the package.json, you will in the dependencies key the installed packages. The package-lock.json will contain info of the **exact** version of each package.

## File-system routing

This means that instead of manually define the routes in code, you use your file-system to define all the routes.

1. Create a new folder called app and move the `index.tsx` file inside it.
2. Rename the file to `page.tsx`
3. Add `export default` to the HomePage function to help NextJS distinguish which component to render as the main component of the page.

## Running the dev server

It is used to see the changes in your new page while developing. By default, the component is done in Server Components and does not allow for hooks. We will discuss the main difference between Server and Client Components and fix this error.

The `layout.tsx` page contains the following

```javascript

export const metadata = {
    title: 'Next.js'
    description: 'Generated by NextJS'
}

<html lang="en">
    <body>
        {children}
    </body>
</html>
```


