# Text processing stream

- stdout: standard output, default file descriptor where a process writes its normal output data
- stdin: standard input, preconnected input communication channel between a computer program and its environment when it begins execution 
- stderr: default output stream used by a computer to send error messages and diagnostic information. Separated from standard output allowing errors to be distinguished from regular data.
- pipes: fundamental inter-process communciation mechanism that allows the **stdout** of one command to be passed as **stdin** to another program 
- **redirection**: it allows users to control where the input and output of commands are directed, enablig more flexile and powerful commands. By default, stdin comes from keyboard, stdout goes to terminal screen, and stderr is also displayed on the screen. It allows change the default sources and destinations, such as sending the output to a file instead of putting it in screen using `>` or reading input from a file instead of keyboard using the `<`

**example of redirection**: the file descriptor `2` (stderror, `1` is stdout, `0` is stdin) is redirected to `/dev/null`, which is a special device data that discards all data written to it. It surpressess error messages generated by a command, preventing them to be displayed at terminal. It cleans output by hiding errors, specially in scripts or automatic tasks. `dev/null` device act as a black hole, accepting input but providing no output. If you read `/dev/null`, it returns an EOF condition. 

The `2>&1` means that the `stderr` file is redirected and combined to the `stdout` into a single stream. The & is to identify that 1 is a file descriptor in the context of redirectors. 

## Exercises

```bash
cat /etc/passwd | cut -d 
```